The first known mention of the game was in the book Wuzazu by the
Ming-dynasty writer Xie Zhaozhe (fl. c. 1600), who wrote that the
game dated back to the time of the Han dynasty (206 BCE – 220 CE).
Real Name of Rock Paper Scissor:
The game of rock-paper-scissors is called, precisely, "Rochambeau."
Gardner appears to have been fond of team games, so to adapt rock-
paper-scissors, her Handbook has the players of each of two teams
decide among themselves whether their team will present rock, paper,
or scissors.

Can a Computer Learn Game Strategy as it Plays?
The game of Rock, Paper, Scissors is very simple. Each player picks
one of the three objects (usually by making the appropriate hand
shape on a count of three!) and these rules are applied to see who has
won that round:
• Paper wraps (beats) Rock
• Scissors cut (beat) Paper
• Rock blunts (beats) Scissors
The challenge of the game is to guess what your opponent will choose
and pick the appropriate object to beat them.
People find it quite hard to pick a sequence of perfectly random
choices, so any pattern that a player develops could be learned by the
opponent and used to win the game. That is what happens in this
example. As you play, the computer learns the pattern of objects that
you are most likely to pick.
How Does it Work?
The computer keeps track of the conditional probabilities of you
picking each of the three objects given the object you picked last. The
computer always picks the object that beats the one that it thinks you
are most likely to choose. Although it knows what you have actually
picked (you press one of the buttons to make your choice), it is honest
and doesn't cheat!
You can observe the computer learning by picking a strategy and
sticking to it for a while. Here are a few things to try:
1. Pick Rock, then Paper, then Scissors, then Rock again and keep
that pattern up. See how quickly the computer learns to beat you
every time?
2. Having done that a few times, change strategy and pick Paper 5
times in a row. See how the computer spots your change of
strategy and alters its play?
3. Pick any strategy of your own and see if the computer can spot
the pattern.
4. See if you can be perfectly random in your choices and beat the
computer.
